	Instant coffee is real, brewed coffee which has undergone special processes in order to create coffee crystals which contain no water at all. The crystals can then later be mixed with water to rehydrate and create coffee once again. The process involves brewing normal coffee, creating a concentrate, and one of a few possible methods to remove the water to create crystals.
	Though instant coffee is real brewed coffee, it is typically made with harsher Robusta coffee beans rather than the milder Arabica coffee beans. Robusta beans are easier to grow, have larger windows for harvest, and therefore are less expensive to produce and purchase for manufacturing instant coffee. As the price point is part of the appeal in instant coffee, this is a considerable factor and can explain the harsh taste.
	The process begins by brewing normal coffee in very large quantities. The large amount of coffee is needed in order to form a concentrate. After being brewed, the coffee is heated more until a thick, very concentrated syrup-like coffee is achieved. The goal at this stage is to remove as much water as possible without burning the concentrated coffee.
	The next step is to completely dry the coffee into crystalline sheets. There multiple methods with spray drying and freeze drying being the most common. Spray drying involves misting the concentrate while blowing superheated air through the mist. This causes an instant coffee powder to form, and drop to the ground. This method is cheaper, but the high heat can detract from the flavor of the instant coffee.
	Freeze drying involves quickly freezing the coffee as thin sheets. The freezing process typically takes less than 2 hours. After, the frozen sheets are broken into crystals and must be dried. The crystals are put into a vacuum and slightly heated. The lack of pressure allows the ice to vaporize at much lower temperatures, leave only coffee crystals behind.
	Coffee aromas which were captured in the earlier steps are then added to the crystals during packaging. Packaging takes place in a low humidity environment to avoid rehydration. Sometimes packaging is also done in low oxygen environments to avoid losing the captured aromas before the packages are sealed.
	Real coffee is heavily processed in order to create instant coffee crystals. The differences in taste typically have to do with the wide use of cheaper, harsher Robusta beans and cheaper methods of drying which adversely affect flavor.
